README.md, before:

TightDB
=======

This README file explains how to build and install the TightDB core
library.


Prerequisites
-------------

To build the TightDB core library, you need the standard set of build
tools. This includes a C/C++ compiler and GNU make. TightDB is
thoroughly tested with both GCC and Clang. It is known to work with
GCC 4.2 and newer, as well as with Clang 3.0 and newer.

If you are going to modify the TightDB core library, you will need
Cheetah for Python (http://www.cheetahtemplate.org). It is needed
because some source files are generated from Cheetah templates.

To run the benchmarking suite (make benchmark) on Linux, you will need
the development part of the 'procps' library.

The following is a suggestion of how to install the prerequisites on
each of our major platforms:

### Ubuntu 10.04 and 12.04

    sudo apt-get install build-essential
    sudo apt-get install python-cheetah
    sudo apt-get install libproc-dev

### Linux Mint 15, 16, Ubuntu 13.04, 13.10

    sudo apt-get install build-essential
    sudo apt-get install python-cheetah
    sudo apt-get install libprocps0-dev

### Linux Mint 17, 17.1, Ubuntu 14.04

    sudo apt-get install build-essential
    sudo apt-get install python-cheetah
    sudo apt-get install libprocps3-dev

### Fedora 17, 18, 19, 20, Amazon Linux 2012.09

    sudo yum install gcc gcc-c++
    sudo yum install python-cheetah
    sudo yum install procps-devel

### Mac OS X 10.7, 10.8, and 10.9

On Mac OS X, the build procedure uses Clang as the C/C++ compiler by
default. It needs at least Clang 3.0 which comes with Xcode 4.2. On OS
X 10.9 (Mavericks) we recommend at least Xcode 5.0, since in some
cases when a previous version of OS X is upgraded to 10.9, you will be
left with a malfunctioning set of command line tools (in particular
the `lipo` command), and this is most easily fixed by upgrading to
Xcode 5. Run the following command in the command prompt to see if you
have Xcode installed, and, if so, what version it is:

    xcodebuild -version

If you have Xcode 5 or later, you will already have the required
command line tools installed. In Xcode 4, however, the "Command line
tools" is an optional Xcode add-on that you must install. You can find
it under the "Downloads" pane of the "Preferences" dialog in the Xcode
4 menu.

Download the latest version of Python Cheetah
(https://pypi.python.org/packages/source/C/Cheetah/Cheetah-2.4.4.tar.gz),
then:

    tar xf Cheetah-2.4.4.tar.gz
    cd Cheetah-2.4.4/
    sudo python setup.py install



Configure, build, install
-------------------------

Run the following commands to configure, build, and install the
language binding:

    sh build.sh config
    sh build.sh build
    sudo sh build.sh install

Headers will be installed in:

    /usr/local/include/tightdb/

Except for `tightdb.hpp` which is installed as:

    /usr/local/include/tightdb.hpp

The following libraries will be installed:

    /usr/local/lib/libtightdb.so
    /usr/local/lib/libtightdb-dbg.so
    /usr/local/lib/libtightdb.a

Note: '.so' is replaced by '.dylib' on OS X.

The following programs will be installed:

    /usr/local/bin/tightdb-import
    /usr/local/bin/tightdb-import-dbg
    /usr/local/bin/tightdb-config
    /usr/local/bin/tightdb-config-dbg
    /usr/local/libexec/tightdbd
    /usr/local/libexec/tightdbd-dbg

The `tightdb-import` tool lets you load files containing
comma-separated values into TightDB. The next two are used
transparently by the TightDB library when `async` transactions are
enabled. The two `config` programs provide the necessary compiler
flags for an application that needs to link against TightDB. They work
with GCC and other compilers, such as Clang, that are mostly command
line compatible with GCC. Here is an example:

    g++  my_app.cpp  `tightdb-config --cflags --libs`

Here is a more comple set of build-related commands:

    sh build.sh config
    sh build.sh clean
    sh build.sh build
    sh build.sh show-install
    sudo sh build.sh install
    sh build.sh test-intalled
    sudo sh build.sh uninstall



Building for iOS
----------------

On Mac OS X it is possible to build a version of the TightDB core
library for iOS (the iPhone OS). It requires that the iPhoneOS and
iPhoneSimulator SDKs for Xcode are installed.

Run the following command to build the TightDB core library for
iPhone/iOS:

    sh build.sh build-iphone

This produces the following files and directories:

    iphone-lib/include/
    iphone-lib/libtightdb-ios.a
    iphone-lib/libtightdb-ios-dbg.a
    iphone-lib/tightdb-config
    iphone-lib/tightdb-config-dbg

The `include` directory holds a copy of the header files, which are
identical to the ones installed by `sh build.sh install`. There are
two versions of the static library, one that is compiled with
optimization, and one that is compiled for debugging. Each one
contains code compiled for both iOS and for the iOS
simulator. Each one also comes with a `config` program that can be
used to enquire about required compiler and linker flags.

If you need to use the core library for development of the Objective C
binding, consider running `sh build.sh build-objc`.

Configuration
-------------

It is possible to install into a non-default location by running the
following command before building and installing:

    sh build.sh config [PREFIX]

Here, `PREFIX` is the installation prefix. If it is not specified, it
defaults to `/usr/local`.

Normally the TightDB version is taken to be what is returned by `git
describe`. To override this, set `TIGHTDB_VERSION` as in the following
examples:

    TIGHTDB_VERSION=0.1.4 sh build.sh config
    TIGHTDB_VERSION=0.1.4 sh build.sh bin-dist all

To use a nondefault compiler, or a compiler in a nondefault location,
set the environment variable `CC` before calling `sh build.sh build`
or `sh build.sh bin-dist`, as in the following example:

    CC=clang sh build.sh bin-dist all

### Replication

To enable replication in TightDB, set `TIGHTDB_ENABLE_REPLICATION` to
a nonempty value during configuration as in the following example:

    TIGHTDB_ENABLE_REPLICATION=1 sh build.sh config

When set during preparation of a distribution package, it will have
the extra effect of including "replication" as an optional extension
available for installation to the end-user:

    TIGHTDB_ENABLE_REPLICATION=1 sh build.sh bin-dist all



Testing
-------

The core library comes with a suite of unite tests. You can run it in
one of the following ways:

    sh build.sh check
    sh build.sh check-debug
    sh build.sh memcheck
    sh build.sh memcheck-debug

The `mem` versions will run the suite inside Valgrind.

There are a number of environment variable that can be use the
customize the execution. For example, here is how to run only the
`Foo` test and those whose names start with `Bar`, then how run all
tests whose names start with `Foo`, except `Foo2` and those whose
names end with an `X`:

    UNITTEST_FILTER="Foo Bar*" sh build.sh check-debug
    UNITTEST_FILTER="Foo* - Foo2 *X" sh build.sh check-debug

These are the available variables:

 - `UNITTEST_FILTER` can be used to exclude one or more tests from a
   particular run. For more information about the syntax, see the
   documentation of
   `tightdb::test_util::unit_test::create_wildcard_filter()` in
   `test/util/unit_test.hpp`.

 - Set `UNITTEST_PROGRESS` to a non-empty value to enable reporting of
   progress (write the name of each test as it is executed).

 - If you set `UNITTEST_SHUFFLE` to a non-empty value, the tests will
   be executed in a random order. This requires, of course, that all
   executed tests are independant of each other. Note that unless you
   also set `UNITTEST_RANDOM_SEED=random`, you will get the same
   random order in each sucessive run.

 - You may set `UNITTEST_RANDOM_SEED` to `random` or to some unsigned
   integer (at least 32 bits will be accepted). If you specify
   `random`, the global pseudorandom number generator will be seeded
   with a nondeterministic value (one that generally will be different
   in each sucessive run). If you specify an integer, it will be
   seeded with that integer.

 - Set `UNITTEST_THREADS` to the number of test threads to use. The
   default is 1. Using more than one thread requires that all executed
   tests are thread-safe and independant of each other.

 - Set `UNITTEST_KEEP_FILES` to a non-empty value to disable automatic
   removal of test files.

 - Set `UNITTEST_XML` to a non-empty value to dump the test results to
   an XML file. For details, see
   `tightdb::test_util::unit_test::create_xml_reporter()` in
   `test/util/unit_test.hpp`.

Memory debugging:

TightDB currently allows for uninitialized data to be written to a
database file. This is not an error (technically), but it does cause
Valgrind to report errors. To avoid these 'false positives' during
testing and debugging, set `TIGHTDB_ENABLE_ALLOC_SET_ZERO` to a
nonempty value during configuration as in the following example:

    TIGHTDB_ENABLE_ALLOC_SET_ZERO=1 sh build.sh config


Packaging for OS X
-------------------

You can create a framework for Mac OS X after you have built the
core library (the `build` target). The framework is useful when
creating OS X application. The command is:

    sh build.sh build-osx-framework


Packaging for iOS
-----------------

You can create a framework for iOS after you have built the core
library for iOS (the `build-iphone` target=. The framework is useful when
creating apps for iPhone and iPad. The command is:

    sh build.sh build-ios-framework


Packaging for Debian/Ubuntu
---------------------------

It is possible to create Debian/Ubuntu packages (`.deb`) by running the
following command:

    sh build.sh dist-deb


Packaging for Fedora
--------------------

Fedora is distributing binary packages as `.rpm` files. In order to create
packages for Fedora, you need to install a few packages:

    sudo yum install rpmdevtools rpmbuild

First, you must initialize you RPM build system:

    rpmdev-setuptree

This command will create a directory structure in your home directory
where the `.rpm` will be created.

Second, you must copy the relevant `.spec` files after you have
updated the changelog and version number in the `.spec` file. The core
library and each binding have a `.spec` file. For the core, the
command is:

    cp libtightdb.spec $HOME/rpmbuild/SPECS

Next, you create a `tar.gz` file with the core, and copy it to the
build area:

    mkdir /tmp/libtightdb-0.1.5
    sh build.sh dist-copy /tmp/libtightdb-0.1.5
    (cd /tmp && tar czf libtightdb-0.1.5.tar.gz libtightdb-0.1.5)
    mv /tmp/libtightdb-0.1.5.tar.gz $HOME/rpmbuild/SOURCES

Finally, you can build the `.rpm` files:

    cd $HOME/rpmbuld/SPECS
    rpmbuild -bb libtightdb.spec

The `.rpm` files can be found in `$HOME/rpmbuild/RPMS`.


Building a distribution package
-------------------------------

In general, it is necessary (and crucial) to properly update the
versions of the following shared libraries:

    libtightdb.so      (/tightdb/src/tightdb/Makefile)
    libtightdb-c.so    (/tightdb_c/src/tightdb/c/Makefile)
    libtightdb-objc.so (/tightdb_objc/src/tightdb/objc/Makefile)

Do this by editing the the indicated Makefiles.

Please note that these versions are completely independent of each
other and of the package version. When the library versions are set
correctly, do one of the following:

    sh build.sh src-dist all   # Source distribution
    sh build.sh bin-dist all   # Prebuilt core library

If everything went well, consider tagging and then rebuilding the
package:

    git tag -a 'bNNN' -m "New tag for 'Build NNN'"
    git push --tags

This will produce a package whose name, and whose top-level directory
is named according to the tag.

During the building of a distribution package, some Markdown documents
are converted to PDF format, and this is done using the Pandoc
utility. See below for instructions on how to install Pandoc. On some
platforms, however, Pandoc installation is unfeasible (e.g. Amazon
Linux). In those cases you may set `TIGHTDB_DISABLE_MARKDOWN_TO_PDF`
to a nonempty value to disable the conversion to PDF.

### Linux Mint 15, 16, 17, Ubuntu 10.04, 12.04, 13.04, 13.10, 14.04

    sudo apt-get install texlive-latex-base texlive-latex-extra texlive-fonts-recommended
    sudo apt-get install pandoc

### Fedora 17

    sudo yum install pandoc-markdown2pdf

### Fedora 18, 19, 20

    sudo yum install pandoc-pdf texlive

### Mac OS X 10.7, 10.8, and 10.9

Install Pandoc and XeLaTeX (aka MacTeX) by following the instructions
on http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/installing.html. This boils down
to installing the following two packages:

 - http://pandoc.googlecode.com/files/pandoc-1.12.0.2.dmg
 - http://mirror.ctan.org/systems/mac/mactex/mactex-basic.pkg

When done, you need to restart the terminal session.

Commit message:

Added Android section in the README file

README.md, after:

TightDB
=======

This README file explains how to build and install the TightDB core
library.


Prerequisites
-------------

To build the TightDB core library, you need the standard set of build
tools. This includes a C/C++ compiler and GNU make. TightDB is
thoroughly tested with both GCC and Clang. It is known to work with
GCC 4.2 and newer, as well as with Clang 3.0 and newer.

If you are going to modify the TightDB core library, you will need
Cheetah for Python (http://www.cheetahtemplate.org). It is needed
because some source files are generated from Cheetah templates.

To run the benchmarking suite (make benchmark) on Linux, you will need
the development part of the 'procps' library.

The following is a suggestion of how to install the prerequisites on
each of our major platforms:

### Ubuntu 10.04 and 12.04

    sudo apt-get install build-essential
    sudo apt-get install python-cheetah
    sudo apt-get install libproc-dev

### Linux Mint 15, 16, Ubuntu 13.04, 13.10

    sudo apt-get install build-essential
    sudo apt-get install python-cheetah
    sudo apt-get install libprocps0-dev

### Linux Mint 17, 17.1, Ubuntu 14.04

    sudo apt-get install build-essential
    sudo apt-get install python-cheetah
    sudo apt-get install libprocps3-dev

### Fedora 17, 18, 19, 20, Amazon Linux 2012.09

    sudo yum install gcc gcc-c++
    sudo yum install python-cheetah
    sudo yum install procps-devel

### Mac OS X 10.7, 10.8, and 10.9

On Mac OS X, the build procedure uses Clang as the C/C++ compiler by
default. It needs at least Clang 3.0 which comes with Xcode 4.2. On OS
X 10.9 (Mavericks) we recommend at least Xcode 5.0, since in some
cases when a previous version of OS X is upgraded to 10.9, you will be
left with a malfunctioning set of command line tools (in particular
the `lipo` command), and this is most easily fixed by upgrading to
Xcode 5. Run the following command in the command prompt to see if you
have Xcode installed, and, if so, what version it is:

    xcodebuild -version

If you have Xcode 5 or later, you will already have the required
command line tools installed. In Xcode 4, however, the "Command line
tools" is an optional Xcode add-on that you must install. You can find
it under the "Downloads" pane of the "Preferences" dialog in the Xcode
4 menu.

Download the latest version of Python Cheetah
(https://pypi.python.org/packages/source/C/Cheetah/Cheetah-2.4.4.tar.gz),
then:

    tar xf Cheetah-2.4.4.tar.gz
    cd Cheetah-2.4.4/
    sudo python setup.py install



Configure, build, install
-------------------------

Run the following commands to configure, build, and install the
language binding:

    sh build.sh config
    sh build.sh build
    sudo sh build.sh install

Headers will be installed in:

    /usr/local/include/tightdb/

Except for `tightdb.hpp` which is installed as:

    /usr/local/include/tightdb.hpp

The following libraries will be installed:

    /usr/local/lib/libtightdb.so
    /usr/local/lib/libtightdb-dbg.so
    /usr/local/lib/libtightdb.a

Note: '.so' is replaced by '.dylib' on OS X.

The following programs will be installed:

    /usr/local/bin/tightdb-import
    /usr/local/bin/tightdb-import-dbg
    /usr/local/bin/tightdb-config
    /usr/local/bin/tightdb-config-dbg
    /usr/local/libexec/tightdbd
    /usr/local/libexec/tightdbd-dbg

The `tightdb-import` tool lets you load files containing
comma-separated values into TightDB. The next two are used
transparently by the TightDB library when `async` transactions are
enabled. The two `config` programs provide the necessary compiler
flags for an application that needs to link against TightDB. They work
with GCC and other compilers, such as Clang, that are mostly command
line compatible with GCC. Here is an example:

    g++  my_app.cpp  `tightdb-config --cflags --libs`

Here is a more comple set of build-related commands:

    sh build.sh config
    sh build.sh clean
    sh build.sh build
    sh build.sh show-install
    sudo sh build.sh install
    sh build.sh test-intalled
    sudo sh build.sh uninstall

Building for Android
--------------------

Building for Android required the NDK of version >= r10d installed.

It can be built using the following command:

    sh build.sh build-android

Building for iOS
----------------

On Mac OS X it is possible to build a version of the TightDB core
library for iOS (the iPhone OS). It requires that the iPhoneOS and
iPhoneSimulator SDKs for Xcode are installed.

Run the following command to build the TightDB core library for
iPhone/iOS:

    sh build.sh build-iphone

This produces the following files and directories:

    iphone-lib/include/
    iphone-lib/libtightdb-ios.a
    iphone-lib/libtightdb-ios-dbg.a
    iphone-lib/tightdb-config
    iphone-lib/tightdb-config-dbg

The `include` directory holds a copy of the header files, which are
identical to the ones installed by `sh build.sh install`. There are
two versions of the static library, one that is compiled with
optimization, and one that is compiled for debugging. Each one
contains code compiled for both iOS and for the iOS
simulator. Each one also comes with a `config` program that can be
used to enquire about required compiler and linker flags.

If you need to use the core library for development of the Objective C
binding, consider running `sh build.sh build-objc`.

Configuration
-------------

It is possible to install into a non-default location by running the
following command before building and installing:

    sh build.sh config [PREFIX]

Here, `PREFIX` is the installation prefix. If it is not specified, it
defaults to `/usr/local`.

Normally the TightDB version is taken to be what is returned by `git
describe`. To override this, set `TIGHTDB_VERSION` as in the following
examples:

    TIGHTDB_VERSION=0.1.4 sh build.sh config
    TIGHTDB_VERSION=0.1.4 sh build.sh bin-dist all

To use a nondefault compiler, or a compiler in a nondefault location,
set the environment variable `CC` before calling `sh build.sh build`
or `sh build.sh bin-dist`, as in the following example:

    CC=clang sh build.sh bin-dist all

### Replication

To enable replication in TightDB, set `TIGHTDB_ENABLE_REPLICATION` to
a nonempty value during configuration as in the following example:

    TIGHTDB_ENABLE_REPLICATION=1 sh build.sh config

When set during preparation of a distribution package, it will have
the extra effect of including "replication" as an optional extension
available for installation to the end-user:

    TIGHTDB_ENABLE_REPLICATION=1 sh build.sh bin-dist all



Testing
-------

The core library comes with a suite of unite tests. You can run it in
one of the following ways:

    sh build.sh check
    sh build.sh check-debug
    sh build.sh memcheck
    sh build.sh memcheck-debug

The `mem` versions will run the suite inside Valgrind.

There are a number of environment variable that can be use the
customize the execution. For example, here is how to run only the
`Foo` test and those whose names start with `Bar`, then how run all
tests whose names start with `Foo`, except `Foo2` and those whose
names end with an `X`:

    UNITTEST_FILTER="Foo Bar*" sh build.sh check-debug
    UNITTEST_FILTER="Foo* - Foo2 *X" sh build.sh check-debug

These are the available variables:

 - `UNITTEST_FILTER` can be used to exclude one or more tests from a
   particular run. For more information about the syntax, see the
   documentation of
   `tightdb::test_util::unit_test::create_wildcard_filter()` in
   `test/util/unit_test.hpp`.

 - Set `UNITTEST_PROGRESS` to a non-empty value to enable reporting of
   progress (write the name of each test as it is executed).

 - If you set `UNITTEST_SHUFFLE` to a non-empty value, the tests will
   be executed in a random order. This requires, of course, that all
   executed tests are independant of each other. Note that unless you
   also set `UNITTEST_RANDOM_SEED=random`, you will get the same
   random order in each sucessive run.

 - You may set `UNITTEST_RANDOM_SEED` to `random` or to some unsigned
   integer (at least 32 bits will be accepted). If you specify
   `random`, the global pseudorandom number generator will be seeded
   with a nondeterministic value (one that generally will be different
   in each sucessive run). If you specify an integer, it will be
   seeded with that integer.

 - Set `UNITTEST_THREADS` to the number of test threads to use. The
   default is 1. Using more than one thread requires that all executed
   tests are thread-safe and independant of each other.

 - Set `UNITTEST_KEEP_FILES` to a non-empty value to disable automatic
   removal of test files.

 - Set `UNITTEST_XML` to a non-empty value to dump the test results to
   an XML file. For details, see
   `tightdb::test_util::unit_test::create_xml_reporter()` in
   `test/util/unit_test.hpp`.

Memory debugging:

TightDB currently allows for uninitialized data to be written to a
database file. This is not an error (technically), but it does cause
Valgrind to report errors. To avoid these 'false positives' during
testing and debugging, set `TIGHTDB_ENABLE_ALLOC_SET_ZERO` to a
nonempty value during configuration as in the following example:

    TIGHTDB_ENABLE_ALLOC_SET_ZERO=1 sh build.sh config


Packaging for OS X
-------------------

You can create a framework for Mac OS X after you have built the
core library (the `build` target). The framework is useful when
creating OS X application. The command is:

    sh build.sh build-osx-framework


Packaging for iOS
-----------------

You can create a framework for iOS after you have built the core
library for iOS (the `build-iphone` target=. The framework is useful when
creating apps for iPhone and iPad. The command is:

    sh build.sh build-ios-framework


Packaging for Debian/Ubuntu
---------------------------

It is possible to create Debian/Ubuntu packages (`.deb`) by running the
following command:

    sh build.sh dist-deb


Packaging for Fedora
--------------------

Fedora is distributing binary packages as `.rpm` files. In order to create
packages for Fedora, you need to install a few packages:

    sudo yum install rpmdevtools rpmbuild

First, you must initialize you RPM build system:

    rpmdev-setuptree

This command will create a directory structure in your home directory
where the `.rpm` will be created.

Second, you must copy the relevant `.spec` files after you have
updated the changelog and version number in the `.spec` file. The core
library and each binding have a `.spec` file. For the core, the
command is:

    cp libtightdb.spec $HOME/rpmbuild/SPECS

Next, you create a `tar.gz` file with the core, and copy it to the
build area:

    mkdir /tmp/libtightdb-0.1.5
    sh build.sh dist-copy /tmp/libtightdb-0.1.5
    (cd /tmp && tar czf libtightdb-0.1.5.tar.gz libtightdb-0.1.5)
    mv /tmp/libtightdb-0.1.5.tar.gz $HOME/rpmbuild/SOURCES

Finally, you can build the `.rpm` files:

    cd $HOME/rpmbuld/SPECS
    rpmbuild -bb libtightdb.spec

The `.rpm` files can be found in `$HOME/rpmbuild/RPMS`.


Building a distribution package
-------------------------------

In general, it is necessary (and crucial) to properly update the
versions of the following shared libraries:

    libtightdb.so      (/tightdb/src/tightdb/Makefile)
    libtightdb-c.so    (/tightdb_c/src/tightdb/c/Makefile)
    libtightdb-objc.so (/tightdb_objc/src/tightdb/objc/Makefile)

Do this by editing the the indicated Makefiles.

Please note that these versions are completely independent of each
other and of the package version. When the library versions are set
correctly, do one of the following:

    sh build.sh src-dist all   # Source distribution
    sh build.sh bin-dist all   # Prebuilt core library

If everything went well, consider tagging and then rebuilding the
package:

    git tag -a 'bNNN' -m "New tag for 'Build NNN'"
    git push --tags

This will produce a package whose name, and whose top-level directory
is named according to the tag.

During the building of a distribution package, some Markdown documents
are converted to PDF format, and this is done using the Pandoc
utility. See below for instructions on how to install Pandoc. On some
platforms, however, Pandoc installation is unfeasible (e.g. Amazon
Linux). In those cases you may set `TIGHTDB_DISABLE_MARKDOWN_TO_PDF`
to a nonempty value to disable the conversion to PDF.

### Linux Mint 15, 16, 17, Ubuntu 10.04, 12.04, 13.04, 13.10, 14.04

    sudo apt-get install texlive-latex-base texlive-latex-extra texlive-fonts-recommended
    sudo apt-get install pandoc

### Fedora 17

    sudo yum install pandoc-markdown2pdf

### Fedora 18, 19, 20

    sudo yum install pandoc-pdf texlive

### Mac OS X 10.7, 10.8, and 10.9

Install Pandoc and XeLaTeX (aka MacTeX) by following the instructions
on http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/installing.html. This boils down
to installing the following two packages:

 - http://pandoc.googlecode.com/files/pandoc-1.12.0.2.dmg
 - http://mirror.ctan.org/systems/mac/mactex/mactex-basic.pkg

When done, you need to restart the terminal session.
